---
layout: post
title: PPIMCE - An In-memory Computing Fabric for Privacy Preserving Computing
date: 2023-08-04
author: Jianqiao Mo
tags: [Paper]
comments: true
toc: false
pinned: false
---

**Authors**: Haoran Geng, Jianqiao Mo, Dayane Reis, Jonathan Takeshita, Taeho Jung, Brandon Reagen, 
Michael Niemier, Xiaobo Sharon Hu

**Abstract**:
Privacy has rapidly become a major concern/design consideration. Homomorphic Encryption (HE) and Garbled Circuits (GC) are privacy-preserving techniques that support computations on encrypted data. HE and GC can complement each other, as HE is more efficient for linear operations, while GC is more effective for non-linear operations. Together, they enable complex computing tasks, such as machine learning, to be performed exactly on ciphertexts. However, HE and GC introduce two major bottlenecks: an elevated computational overhead and high data transfer costs. This paper presents PPIMCE, an in-memory computing (IMC) fabric designed to mitigate both computational overhead and data transfer issues. Through the use of multiple IMC cores for high parallelism, and by leveraging in-SRAM IMC for data management, PPIMCE offers a compact, energy-efficient solution for accelerating HE and GC. PPIMCE achieves a 107X speedup against a CPU implementation of GC. Additionally, PPIMCE achieves a 1,500X and 800X speedup compared to CPU and GPU implementations of CKKS-based HE multiplications. For privacy-preserving machine learning inference, PPIMCE attains a 1,000X speedup compared to CPU and a 12X speedup against CraterLake, the state-of-art privacy preserving computation accelerator.

***

<div style="text-align: center;">
[<a href="https://arxiv.org/abs/2308.02648">arxiv</a>]
</div>

***